So I'm going to talk about a filesystem,
what a filesystem is.
Every operating system or
basically every operating system
provides you with a filesystem.
It is one of those pieces of an operating
system that you always find.
And we will talk about Linux's.
And they are all vert similar.
So even though we're talking
specifically about Linux,
because that's what by
default runs on Raspberry Pi.
This is common to Windows or iOS or
whatever filesystem you're using.
So a filesystem is basically a hierarchy
of directories and eventually files.
So a directory is basically actually,
another term for
that that you may have
heard of is a folder.
People call them folders for, graphically,
when you have a graphic user interface,
a lot of time,
they're drawing these folders.
But a directory's just a holder,
a container for a bunch of files,
a place where files live.
Call that a directory.
And a filesystem is
a hierarchy of directories.
And then eventually in these directories,
you have files also in this directory.
So directory can contain other directories
but it can also contain files.
So what I'm showing here is sort of
a hierarchy, I'm drawing it as a tree,
this is a common way to draw it,
for a Linux Filesystem.
And at the top, that top node right there,
that is slash, forward slash, right?
And that is root, the top directory.
And so, that's just the name of it,
it's called slash.
And then within that directory,
I'm showing four different
directories that it has.
You can see the nodes underneath it,
bin, etc, home and user.
These are common inside Linux.
And then inside home, you can see
there is another directical pi.
And inside pi,
there are three more directories,
desktop, indiecity, and python-games.
So this tree that you see,
this is a hierarchy of directories
inside some typical Linux Filesystem.
Now note that I don't have any
files in this picture, but I could.
So the leaf nodes, the bottom nodes of
this type of graph would be files, right?
Because inside a directory, directory
can have other directories in it.
Which can have other and
so on recursively, but
eventually you've got some files in there,
right?
So any of these directories can have
a set of files that are at the bottom
of this tree.
So that's what the filesystem is and
when you want to refer to files,
you refer to them, well,
there are two ways to refer them.
But we'll talk about that actually
in the next set of slides.
But right now,
let's look at some Linux commands that
let you look at the filesystem, okay?
And there are a set of these,
this is just one.
PWD, so PWD, what it does is
when you type it in the prompt,
it tells you what directory
you are currently in.
So this is an important thing
about a shell running in Linux.
Every shell has its own current directory.
A directory that it is
currently running in.
So what that means is if you
type a file name at the prompt,
it will look for it in the current
local directory, all right?
And the current directory can change, and
we'll talk about that in the next set of
slides, but
you can change the current directory.
But there's always a current directory
associated with any particular shell.
And PWD, the whole point of command is to
tell you what the current directory is.
So if I typ, pwd, at prompt here, I get
/home/pi, then notice the naming, right?
Slash, the first slash is the root.
Underneath that is the home directory.
Underneath that is the pi directory,
and that's the directory that I'm in.
So /home/pi.
Notice it between each one of these
directories, directory names,
they put a slash,
a forward slash in between.
So that's how they represent
the higher interims,
sort describe the hierarchy when
you're going through that tree.
But that's what PWD does, and
we'll talk about more in the next set.
So yeah, it basically reports to
the directory that you are currently
in, thank you.
[SOUND]